Data Prepper 2.10.0 release blog (#3381)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2024-10-15-Announcing-Data-Prepper-2.10.0.md

---
layout: post
title: Announcing Data Prepper 2.10.0
authors:
- dvenable
- TODO
date: 2024-10-15 12:30:00 -0600
categories:
  - releases
excerpt: Data Prepper 2.10.0 offers an OpenSearch _bulk API and reads from Amazon Kinesis
meta_keywords: Data Prepper, _bulk, Amazon Kinesis Data Streams, OTel Logs, OTLP JSON

> meta_description: Data Prepper 2.10.0 offers a source that simulates the OpenSearch _bulk API and another source for reading from Amazon Kinesis Data Streams.

Reviewer: Updated meta: 

_**meta_keywords:**_  Data Prepper, OpenSearch bulk API, Kinesis data streams, Kafka, SASL/SCRAM authentication, streaming data ingestion

_**meta_description:**_ Data Prepper 2.10.0 adds OpenSearch API and Kinesis Data Streams sources for seamless ingestion, plus Kafka SASL/SCRAM support and OpenTelemetry log parsing.

---

## Introduction

Data Prepper 2.10 is now available for the community to use. 

> Two major features include a source to send data to Data Prepper using an API mimicking the OpenSearch `_bulk` API from OpenSearch and reading from Amazon Kinesis Data Streams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two major features include a source that sends data to Data Prepper using an API mimicking the OpenSearch `_bulk` API and the ability to read from Amazon Kinesis Data Streams.
```

## OpenSearch API source

Many existing OpenSearch clients that perform ingestion directly to OpenSearch can now send that data to Data Prepper first.

> With this, you can use Data Prepper's buffering and rich processor set before sending data to OpenSearch without having to change clients when they are using the OpenSearch `_bulk` API. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this, you can use Data Prepper's buffering and rich processor set before sending data to OpenSearch without having to change clients that are using the OpenSearch `_bulk` API. 
```

> A new source has been added in Data Prepper named `opensearch_api` that accepts [OpenSearch Document API Bulk operation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/api-reference/document-apis/bulk/) requests from clients using REST and ingests data into OpenSearch. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A new Data Prepper source named `opensearch_api` has been added that accepts [OpenSearch Document API bulk operation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/api-reference/document-apis/bulk/) requests from clients using REST and ingests data into OpenSearch. 
```

The behavior of this source is also quite similar to the existing `http` source. 
It supports industry-standard encryption in the form of TLS/HTTPS and HTTP basic authentication. 

> It parses incoming requests and create Data Prepper events and associated event metadata making it compatible with the `opensearch` sink. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also parses incoming requests and creates Data Prepper events and associated event metadata, making it compatible with the `opensearch` sink. 
```

> The request body should be compatible with OpenSearch Document API Bulk Operation and will also support all the actions like index, create, delete and update.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The request body should be compatible with the OpenSearch Document API bulk operation and will also support all actions: index, create, delete, and update.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Above: Do we mean "The request body should be compatible with the OpenSearch Document API bulk operation and should also support..." or "The request body is compatible with the OpenSearch Document API bulk operation and also supports..."?

Author: We mean the latter. It does support these now.

> The two HTTP methods supported now are the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following two HTTP methods are now supported:
```

```
POST _bulk
POST <index>/_bulk
```

> The second API which specifies the index in the path means you don’t need to include it in the request body.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second API specifies the index in the path, so you don't need to include it in the request body.
```

> Moreover, the following query parameters are also supported that are available in OpenSearch Document API Bulk Operation as the following below:

Reviewer 2: "Additionally, the following OpenSearch Document API bulk operation query parameters are supported:"?

Author: I reworded to use this text.

> * pipeline

Reviewer 2: Should these both be capitalized?

Author: No, these are keywords. I'll use backticks to clarify.

* routing

> An example of using the source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to use the source:
```

```
version: "2"
opensearch-api-pipeline:
  source:
    opensearch_api:
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: ["https://opensearch:9200"]
        insecure: true
        username: "admin"
        password: "admin"
        index: "${getMetadata(\"opensearch_index\")}"
        action: "${getMetadata(\"opensearch_action\")}"
        document_id: "${getMetadata(\"opensearch_id\")}"
        routing: "${getMetadata(\"opensearch_routing\")}"
        pipeline: "${getMetadata(\"opensearch_pipeline\")}"
```

> Consider the sample:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider the following example request:
```

```
POST _bulk
{ "index": { "_index": "movies", "_id": "tt1979320" } }
{ "title": "Rush", "year": 2013 }
```

> The above request will be ingested into OpenSearch and a new document will be created under the index movies with a document id `tt1979320` with the document `{ "title": "Rush", "year": 2013 }`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This request will be ingested into OpenSearch, and a new document will be created under the index `movies` with the document ID `tt1979320` with the document `{ "title": "Rush", "year": 2013 }`.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I'm not following "with the document `{ "title": "Rush", "year": 2013 }`". Do we mean "and the document title `{ "title": "Rush", "year": 2013 }`"?

Author: Please see the latest revision to see if that helps clarify.

> This request will be ingested into OpenSearch, and a new document will be created under the index `movies` with the document ID `tt1979320` with a document source of `{ "title": "Rush", "year": 2013 }`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This request will be ingested into OpenSearch, and a new document will be created under the index `movies` with the document ID `tt1979320` and the document source `{ "title": "Rush", "year": 2013 }`.
```

> Over time, the Data Prepper maintainers are interested in expanding this source to support other indexing APIs to allow it to stand-in for an OpenSearch cluster for ingestion workloads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Data Prepper maintainers are interested in further expanding this source to support other indexing APIs, allowing it to stand in for an OpenSearch cluster in ingestion workloads.
```

> To learn more or express interest see [Provide an OpenSearch API source #4180](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/issues/4180).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn more or provide feedback, see [Provide an OpenSearch API source #4180](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/issues/4180).
```

## Kinesis source

> [Amazon Kinesis Data Streams](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/streams/latest/dev/introduction.html) is a high speed streaming data service. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Amazon Kinesis Data Streams](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/streams/latest/dev/introduction.html) is a high-speed streaming data service. 
```

> Data Prepper is introducing a new source named `kinesis` which can be used to ingest stream records data from multiple Kinesis data streams into OpenSearch clusters. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Data Prepper has also introduced a new source named `kinesis` that can be used to ingest stream record data from multiple Kinesis data streams into OpenSearch clusters. 
```

> You can configure it to read stream records from the beginning or from the latest record. 

Reviewer 2: Should "either" follow "from"? "latest" => "most recent"?

> Moreover, if you enable end to end acknowledgements, Kinesis data streams will be checkpointed to prevent duplicate processing of records.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Moreover, if you enable end-to-end acknowledgements, Kinesis data streams will be checkpointed to prevent duplicate processing of records.
```

> Sample pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is an example pipeline:
```

```
version: "2"
kinesis-pipeline:
  source:
    kinesis:
      codec:
        newline:
      streams:
        - stream_name: "MyStream1"
          initial_position: LATEST
          checkpoint_interval: "PT5M"
        - stream_name: "MyStream2"
          # Enable this if ingestion should start from the start of the stream.
          initial_position: EARLIEST
          consumer_strategy: "polling"
          polling:
            max_polling_records: 100
            idle_time_between_reads: "250ms"
```

## Other features and improvements

> Data Prepper 2.10 has a number of other changes to make it more powerful for the community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Data Prepper 2.10 has introduced a number of other improvements:
```

> * The kafka source now supports authenticating with an Apache Kafka cluster using SASL/SCRAM in addition to the SASL/PLAIN authentication provided in previous versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `kafka` source now supports authentication with an Apache Kafka cluster using SASL/SCRAM in addition to the SASL/PLAIN authentication provided in previous versions.
```

> * Data Prepper can now parse OpenTelemetry logs from sources such as Amazon S3. The new `otel_logs` codec parses data from OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) JSON formatted files. Now you can write OpenTelemetry logs from [AWS S3 Exporter for OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/exporter/awss3exporter/README.md) and read these from Data Prepper. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Data Prepper can now parse OpenTelemetry logs from sources such as Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3). The new `otel_logs` codec parses data from OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) JSON-formatted files. Now you can write OpenTelemetry logs from [AWS S3 Exporter for OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/exporter/awss3exporter/README.md) and read these using Data Prepper. 
```

> * Additionally, the maintainers have worked to improve the performance through the addition of an internal cache for event keys. Data Prepper administrators can configure this cache as necessary. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Additionally, the maintainers have worked to improve performance through the addition of an internal cache for event keys. Data Prepper administrators can configure this cache as necessary. 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Line 115: The name of the service is "Amazon S3" (never "AWS S3").

Author: On line 115, I'm using the exact name of the OTel plugin: "AWS S3 Exporter for OpenTelemetry Collector"

https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/exporter/awss3exporter/README.md

Reviewer 2: Ah, I see. In that case, we can leave as is.

## Next steps

* To download Data Prepper, visit the [OpenSearch downloads](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html) page.
* For instructions on how to get started with Data Prepper, see [Getting started with Data Prepper](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/getting-started/).

> * To learn more about the work in progress for Data Prepper 2.11 and other releases, see the [Data Prepper roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/221).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To learn more about the work in progress for Data Prepper 2.11 and other releases, see the [Data Prepper Project Roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/221).
```

---
layout: post
title: Announcing Data Prepper 2.10.0
authors:
- sb2k16
- dvenable
date: 2024-10-15 12:30:00 -0600
categories:
  - releases
excerpt: Data Prepper 2.10.0 offers an OpenSearch _bulk API and reads from Amazon Kinesis.
meta_keywords: Data Prepper, OpenSearch bulk API, Kinesis data streams, Kafka, SASL/SCRAM authentication, streaming data ingestion
meta_description: Data Prepper 2.10.0 adds OpenSearch API and Kinesis Data Streams sources for seamless ingestion, plus Kafka SASL/SCRAM support and OpenTelemetry log parsing.
---

## Introduction

Data Prepper 2.10 is now available! 
Two major features include a source that sends data to Data Prepper using an API mimicking the OpenSearch `_bulk` API and the ability to read from Amazon Kinesis Data Streams.

## OpenSearch API source

Many existing OpenSearch clients that perform ingestion directly to OpenSearch can now send that data to Data Prepper first.

> With this, you can use Data Prepper's buffering and rich processor set before sending data to OpenSearch without having to change clients that are using the OpenSearch `_bulk` API. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means that you can use Data Prepper's buffering and rich processor set before sending data to OpenSearch without having to change clients that are using the OpenSearch `_bulk` API. 
```
